---
title: MarkLite Markdown Viewer/Editor Version 0.6.0 Released
layout: post
post-image: "https://mikechilson-blog-assets.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/marklite-0.6.0.png"
description: Open Source Lightweight Markdown Viewer/Editor for Linux
tags:
- Open Source
- Markdown
- Viewer
- Editor
- Programming
- Utilities
---

MarkLite version 0.6.0 has been released with several new features including a toolbar button to launch a Markdown Reference in the users browser, assigning a hot key to the theme button (light/dark modes), and more code refactoring to keep the program lean and fast.

MarkLite is an open-source, lightweight Markdown Viewer and Editor for Linux. I wrote MarkLite out of frustration for having to load a feature-heavy Markdown editor to just view or make a quick change. I developed MarkLite in Dart/Flutter and it was one of my first attempts to write a platform application in that language/framework combination.

**Overview**

Basically the way MarkLite works is it opens in a viewer mode. You can either read the Markdown document then close it or simply click the Edit button to edit it. Edit mode is a full features edit with features like Find, Goto Line, Line Numbers, Syntax Highlighting and Key Commands.

**Features** 
- Lightweight application that loads fast.
- Can be set as your default viewer for Markdown files.
- Viewer/Editor modes.
- Offers a light and dark mode.
- Button to online markdown reference
- Editor has basic functionality for quick edits.
- Common keyboard shortcuts in editor.
- Find/Replace in editor.
- GoTo Line feature in editor.
- Line numbering in editor for convenience.
- Markdown syntax highlighting in editor.

MarkLite is currently avalible in .deb, .rpm, and snap packages.

**Final Thoughts** 

Remember that MarkLite is a lightweight viewer/editor and does not have the full editor/IDE dynamic syntax analysis and other features.
This application is focused on being a fast viewer with light editing, not a feature rich editor.

You can read more and download the package or snap at the [MarkLite website](https://marklite.app).